blog: announcing axum 0.7.0 (#733)
tokio-rs/website: content/blog/2023-11-23-announcing-axum-0-7-0.md

---
date: "2023-11-23"
title: "Announcing axum 0.7.0"
description: "November 23, 2022"
---

Today, we're happy to announce [`axum`] version 0.7. `axum` is an ergonomic
and modular web framework built with [`tokio`], [`tower`], and [`hyper`].

This also includes new major versions of [`axum-core`], [`axum-extra`], and
[`axum-macros`].

## `hyper` 1.0 support

The headline feature of `axum` 0.7 is support for `hyper` 1.0. `hyper` is a
foundational library for much of the networking ecosystem in Rust and finally
having a stable API is a big milestone.

`hyper` 1.0 comes with a big shuffling of the APIs. The previous low level APIs

> (found in [`hyper::server::conn`]) is what has been stabilized whereas the high

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(found in [`hyper::server::conn`]) were stabilized whereas the high
```

> level APIs (such as [`hyper::Server`]) has been removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
level APIs (such as [`hyper::Server`]) have been removed.
```

The plan is to add the high level APIs to a new crate called [`hyper-util`].
There we can build out the APIs without worrying too much about stability
guarantees and backwards compatibility. When something is ready for

> stabilization it can be moved into `hyper`.

Reviewer: The plans on the hyper side don't seem *that* relevant for this blog post, if this is mentioned over there already maybe link to the hyper 1.0 announcement and cut down this paragraph a bit? (in general it would be nice to link to that article somewhere)

Author: I've added a link to Sean's announcement post but I still think this paragraph is good to have since it provides context for hyper-util, without requiring readers to read another post.

`hyper-util` is still in early stages of development and some things (like the
previous `Server` type) are still missing.

Because `hyper-util` is not stable we don't want it to be part of `axum`'s
public API. If you want to use something from `hyper-util` you have to depend
it directly.

> `axum` 0.7 also requires [`tower-http`] 0.5.

Reviewer: Could use a bit more detail, I think. Something like

"If you are using `axum` together with `tower-http`, please note that since both have a public dependency on the `http` crate which also had its 1.0 release, you need to upgrade `tower-http` at the same time (to v0.5+)."

## A new `axum::serve` function

`axum` 0.6 provided `axum::Server` which was an easy way to get started.
`axum::Server` was however just a re-export of `hyper::Server` which has been
removed from `hyper` 1.0.

There isn't yet a full replacement in `hyper-util` so `axum` now provides its
own `serve` function:

```rust
use axum::{
    routing::get,
    Router,
};
use tokio::net::TcpListener;

let app = Router::new().route("/", get(|| async { "Hello, World!" }));

let listener = TcpListener::bind("0.0.0.0:3000").await.unwrap();
axum::serve(listener, app).await.unwrap();
```

> The purpose of `axum::serve` is provide a way to get started with `axum`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of `axum::serve` is to provide a way to get started with `axum`
```

quickly and as such it does not support any configuration options whatsoever.
If you need configuration you have to use `hyper` and `hyper-util` directly. We

> provide an example showing how to do that [here][hyper-serve-example].

Reviewer: Should we maybe merge the graceful shutdown example (really hyper's one, since the axum one hasn't been updated yet) into that one? I think graceful shutdown is probably the most common hyper functionality people used that's not available with `axum::serve`.

Author: Good idea! I've filed an issue for it https://github.com/tokio-rs/axum/issues/2352

## Our own `Body` type

> The [`http-body`] crate is also now 1.0 and that comes with a similar API split

Reviewer: Reads a bit weird, maybe change to

```suggestion
The [`http-body`] crate is now also at 1.0 and that comes with a similar API split
```

or

```suggestion
The [`http-body`] crate also released its version 1.0 and that comes with a similar API split
```

> that `hyper` and `hyper-util` has. `http-body` now just provides the core APIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that `hyper` and `hyper-util` have. `http-body` now just provides the core APIs,
```

and high level utilities has been moved to [`http-body-util`]. That includes
things like `Full`, `Empty`, and `UnsyncBoxBody`, which used to be re-exported by
`axum`.

For the same reason that `hyper-util` shouldn't be part of `axum`'s public API,
`http-body-util` shouldn't either.

> As a replacement `axum` now provides its own body type found at `axum::body::Body`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a replacement, `axum` now provides its own body type found at `axum::body::Body`.
```

Its API is similar to what `hyper::Body` had:

```rust
use axum::body::Body;
use futures::TryStreamExt;
use http_body_util::BodyExt;

// Create an empty body (Body::default() does the same)
Body::empty();

// Create bodies from strings or buffers
Body::from("foobar");
Body::from(Vec::<u8>::from([1, 3, 3, 7]));

// Wrap another type that implements `http_body::Body`
Body::new(another_http_body);

// Convert a `Body` into a `Stream` of data frames
let mut stream = body.into_data_stream();
while let Some(chunk) = stream.try_next().await? {
    // ...
}

// Collect the body into a `Bytes`. Uses `BodyExt::collect`
// This replaces the previous `hyper::body::to_bytes` function
let bytes = body.collect().await?.to_bytes();
```

## Fewer generics

`axum::Router` used to be generic over the request body type. That meant

> applying middleware that changed the request body type would have knock on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
applying middleware that changed the request body type would have knock-on
```

effects throughout your routes:

```rust
// This would work just fine
Router::new()
    .route(
        "/",
        get(|body: Request<Body>| async { ... })
    );

// But adding `tower_http::limit::RequestBodyLimitLayer` would make
// things no longer compile
Router::new()
    .route(
        "/",
        get(|body: Request<Body>| async { ... })
    )
    .layer(tower_http::limit::RequestBodyLimitLayer::new(1024));
```

The reason it doesn't work is that `RequestBodyLimitLayer` changes the request
body type so you have to extract `Request<http_body::Limited<Body>>` instead of
`Request<Body>`. This was very subtle and the source of some confusion.

> However in axum 0.7 everything continues working as before, regardless of which
> middleware you add:

Reviewer: Probably just a matter of taste, but I'd prefer

```suggestion
In axum 0.7, everything continues working as before, regardless of which
middleware you add:
```

```rust
Router::new()
    .route(
        "/",
        // You always extract `Request<Body>` no which middleware
        // you add
        get(|body: Request<Body>| async { ... })
    )
    .layer(tower_http::limit::RequestBodyLimitLayer::new(1024));
```

> There is also a convenient type alias of `Request` that uses `Body`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is also a convenient type alias of `http::Request` that uses axum's `Body` type:
```

```rust
use axum::extract::Request;

Router::new().route("/", get(|body: Request| async { ... }));
```

The request body type parameter has been removed from all of `axum`'s types and
traits including `FromRequest`, `MethodRouter`, `Next`, and more.

## See the changelog for more

I encourage you to read the [changelog] to see all the changes and for tips on

> how to update from 0.6 to 0.7.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
how to upgrade from 0.6 to 0.7.
```

> Also, please ask questions in [Discord] or [file issues] if you have trouble

Reviewer: GitHub discussions is missing, IMHO it should be preferred over Discord for questions since the expectation that you'd search for existing discussions first seems higher.

let mut stream = body.into_data_stream();
while let Some(chunk) = stream.try_next().await? {
    // ...
}

// Collect the body into a `Bytes`. Uses `BodyExt::collect`
// This replaces the previous `hyper::body::to_bytes` function
let bytes = body.collect().await?.to_bytes();
```

## Fewer generics

`axum::Router` used to be generic over the request body type. That meant
applying middleware that changed the request body type would have knock-on
effects throughout your routes:

```rust
// This would work just fine
Router::new()
    .route(
        "/",
        get(|body: Request<Body>| async { ... })
    );

// But adding `tower_http::limit::RequestBodyLimitLayer` would make
// things no longer compile
Router::new()
    .route(
        "/",
        get(|body: Request<Body>| async { ... })
    )
    .layer(tower_http::limit::RequestBodyLimitLayer::new(1024));
```

The reason it doesn't work is that `RequestBodyLimitLayer` changes the request
body type so you have to extract `Request<http_body::Limited<Body>>` instead of
`Request<Body>`. This was very subtle and the source of some confusion.

In axum 0.7, everything continues working as before, regardless of which

> middleware you add:

Reviewer 2: I assume this is because we now use an internally-boxed dynamic dispatch type for `Body`? Is that worth calling out?

Author: Exactly. `axum::Router` implements `Service<Request<B>>` for any `B` and then immediately boxes the body in `Service::call` https://docs.rs/axum/latest/src/axum/routing/mod.rs.html#450-469

I'll add a comment about that.

foundational library for much of the networking ecosystem in Rust and finally
having a stable API is a big milestone.

> [`hyper` is guaranteeing] to not make anymore breaking changes for the next

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`hyper` is guaranteeing] to not make any more breaking changes for the next
```
